# Boris interview

Interviewer 1: So, now we're curious about how the experiences that you had working in the news sector prepared you for your own business or which experiences in that field taught you what not to do.

Boris: I don't necessarily think that comes straight from the news sector, I... I think I have a serious case of ADHD which makes it really hard for me to focus on, whatever, and I've always been drawn to mass media because I think it, there's a lot, it's a sort of like good way to change the world but it's not... I don't necessarily have that specific focus, I haven't always had that specific focus on media. I've always been focused on a lot of things at once. And I think that... because I've always been focused on a lot of things, I've also been learning a lot of things from a lot of different fields: I've worked in software development, in journalism, in media production, in design... And in consulting in the cultural space. And because I've done all those things, you can start to see, whenever you cross those boundaries into another field, you see the things in which that field is better than other fields, or things that field is behind on from other fields. And what that meant for me is that when I got to the BBC and when they started asking me: okay, how can we be more adaptable as a news organisation?, and how can you chance and stay up to date? That I looked at my experience that I've had in other fields to solve that problem. 

Interviewer 2: What are these specific fields?

Boris: Yeah, so a lot of it is... I've worked as an intern CEO (?), managing a team, a software team, before that I've also managed a few software things. I think a lot of the processes in software development are processes which are very, which allow that. The thing with media production, the difficulty with media production is this: when you make a car, you have these sketches of car, and when you have enough resources you can just repeat that and repeat that and repeat that and build the car every time. You have one production line, which is basically a machine to build machines. And you just put stuff in and you know it's going to happen and stuff comes out. Whereas if you are making creative products, like, everything the media produces is a creative product, you can put things in but you don't know what's going to happen in the middle and you don't know what's going to come out. So the only you can and know is that you have a budget. You have time. You have resources. That's the only thing you know, the rest is uncertain. This is something which software tackled like fifteen years ago because software development, is also a creative process, it always happens on places where there are so many variables that it is really hard to predict what is going to happen. And because software was a new industry, it didn't have any traditions, or very little tradition, and very quickly they got to make their own system for that. 

They developed a system which uses all the communication methods there are, the modern ways of working, the ability to share information, and with that they solve a lot of the same problems that journalism is struggling with. (With a different kind of process.) So it's the ability to have done those both things which allows me to say: “hey, that is really working for those people, because of this and this and this, but there different because of this and this and this”. And with that knowledge, I could create a new thing out of old things and hope that that works.

Interviewer 2: And was this necessity of finding a solution was that something that was assigned to you by the BBC or really fucking frustrated you from where you come from?

Boris: This comes from within me. They made the mistake of asking me (laughs) but I've always had these kind of frustrations. I'm usually interested in large, complex systems. I wanna know why people do things, what makes them do things, and how all these things fit together. This is also why I love things like programming, for instance, because you can experiment with all these little bits of things that you put together and then it does something completely different. 

Interviewer 2: Was there something specific about journalism? Because you could have done this with anything.

Boris: Well, yeah, like, the idea that you could really change the world if you talk to a lot of people. Mass media, or social media, is (are, sic.) really interesting for that reason. Like, it's all of our roles (all our own task) to shape the humans, mass media can be a tool to shape the future. And if you have a well functioning mass media, then the future can be shaped in the right way. 

Interviewer 2: Are you afraid that without these tools it won't be shaped in the right way?

Boris: Yeah, definitely. I think there's a big... So, media, especially news media is full of people that are very conscious about the world, about how things work, about the way that things are developing, what we need to learn from history. Which things are okay to just let develop, and which things we actually need to control. And if you look at other fields, like technology sector, that is mostly not driven by people who have those kind of structural understanding and ideas about doing something, but it's more centred around people that are good at building companies. And I don't necessarily believe that what the world needs is what people will buy, you know? And I think that you can build something that the world needs and that the people will buy, but I don't necessarily think that if you make something that people buy, that that's also something that the world needs. 

You see, because the technology sector is so much better at adapting to the changing behaviour of its audience and its user base, it is able to fulfil a lot of the needs that those people have. And that means that the moment traditional media and news media drops one beat, the moment that they don't manage to quickly enough adapt to what their user base needs from them, they have lost that. That will immediately get picked up by the technology sector. The moment that you as a news media don't... the moment that the news media didn't provide good, quick news sources on the internet, with enough reliability as it did with television, the moment that they didn't do that, other media stepped in and it was over.

Interviewer 2: Was that a bad thing for the world, then?

Boris: No, but it does mean that instead of the people who are making the message being very conscious about what the role is and what they are doing to the world, it got more and more into the hands of people who don't necessarily understand what their role is. They don't understand that, when they do this, they chance everybody's lives. What they understand is that they're making a product which people are buying, and that that's going really well, so they should keep developing that and the user research is pointing them in the direction of “okay, we should do this and this as well”. But they don't necessarily understand that they're actually, with doing that, changing politics, changing government, changing the way that people interact with each other. And people in the news media are continually aware of that. And people in technology are less aware of that.

Interviewer 2: Yeah. And it could be dangerous? Or at least have an impact...

Boris: Yes, of course. It means that you hand the direction of the ship over to someone who is solely focused on making the ship go as fast as it can, without even thinking where you want to go. Like if you're on a sail boat, you could always sail with the wind, but you're probably not going to get where you need to be. (laughs) And that's kind of the danger. You need to use both forces.I think that, if we follow the sail boat analogy, what the news media got really good at is finding the places where they needed to be and trying to go straight there, but with that they forgot that they are on a wind powered ship, and that they can peddle all the fuck they want, but if anyone leans slightly into the wind, then that's going to accelerate the whole thing.

Interviewer 2: Is that where New Atoms steps in? Combining journalism and technology?

Boris: Well, I think that we... I think that New Atoms could, like, granted if we succeed in what we're doing, which, it is kind of a big experiment, this idea that you could do journalism and complex creative production in a fashion similar to the production of technology and software, things like that, that is a big experiment. If that works, well, every news organisation could learn from that and put the brightest people on our kind of teams, on like, actual teams, teams that are not made of people that don't collaborate but just do things and then hand them over to the next person, but teams that are actually working together to create things. If we succeed in that, there is no doubt that others will follow that model.


Interviewer 2: Yes, that would be good for you. You would be happy about it. 

Boris: Hell yeah. No of course, if that means that people who are able to help the world go in the right direction, to make them more effective, yes sure. I think that, like, having worked inside media – well, actually inside large corporations – at one point you find out that what they do in large corporations is whenever someone does something really cool, or really scary, they isolate that person, and then they put that person into a box, and they don't call it change anymore but innovation, and they put that person somewhere else, and then sometimes if they want they can peak through the lid and look at the innovation but they can be sure that it's actually not connected to their processes. It's not actually changing it. And I think it's really hard to change that system from within. So by being an example, and showing with this new company, without any money, with just like some folks (not a lot of people), who are like maybe especially handsome but still just some folks,  
that are able to do this thing, even without years of Pulitzers, are able to pull of a much more efficient way of doing good quality editorial production, then others are going to help you. And then change will have been achieved. 

Interviewer 1: Do you think that the chance that relatively inexperienced, however brilliant people, coming together to try to tackle a lot of ways of working can indeed result in addressing... Like, how is it that a bunch of inexperienced people coming together with a very different way of working can address things that a traditional news outlet can not?

Boris: I think that the change that we're trying to achieve is such a big change, it's such a fundamental change, that the it would be almost just as hard to do with anyone with experience as it would be to do it with people that have less experience because it's... If you've been in journalism for a long time, you're going to feel like you're reinventing the wheel. Because everything that we are doing is reinventing. And that is going to be very frustrating and you're going to be sad all the time. Like, we ask “why?” a lot. About everything. 

Interviewer 2: Yes.

Boris: And... How media and journalism is structured, it isn't about questioning the structure. It isn't like: “why is your article structured like that?” It is about what you are trying to say. Experience...  the fact that experience is so important, tells you something about the way that people grow in that profession. They grow by basically getting more and more advanced pattern recognition in their brain. Because they have seen so many things that they can then at one point see if something is weird, or if something is good, … It's a bit like with been able to spell correctly. If you don't give a shit about spelling, then you can read all these things and you don't even notice there's errors in it. But as you get more experienced, at some point you'll be like “hey, this is weird, and that is weird, and that...” And slowly you'll start seeing the connections and at one point you'll just look at a page from afar and be like “oh there's one weird error over there”, and so on. 

Interviewer 2: And the big problem that you are trying to solve is not necessarily better or different journalism, but it is more about the inability of journalism now to adapt quickly and bring out news quickly, which made other technology companies take over that part of journalism without the right knowledge. So the problem is the lack of adaptability? 
(And another one?)

Boris: Yes. When you need to create something different, then create something different. That is something which the news media is completely unable to. 

Interviewer 2: And that is exactly the danger with their workings.

Boris: True, as with experience. If you have really experienced writers, but in say five days we'll invent something which is superior to written words, and everyone will stop consuming text, then you've got a serious problem. And these things... Like this seems insane but these things happen. New media come out of nowhere all the fucking time. And if you're purely based on that pattern recognition, you can't jam fifteen years of experience building VR (virtual reality) into someone really quickly. And that is why in the whole VR space, all the companies that are making really great VR storytelling, none of them are news media. And that is because news media are solely trained on that experience part. Which is also why it's good to work with people who have less experience. They can... generalists (?) are usually better at understand how you can deploy some knowledge to another relevant field. And you need to be able to make that switch. You need to be able to make that switch all the time. If you learn something about writing, you can't not take that over to somewhere else. And that is really important. 

Interviewer 1: Just one more question. Can you say a little bit about the scalability/adaptability (?) part? 
Interviewer 2: Smart (inaudible)


Boris: Yeah, so. How media production usually works is that you usually have the creative minds on your team, and they do something and basically that person is charged... If you have a team, like this could also be just a writer. Basically you're charged of understanding all the things. Like you need to understand everything that is going on. If you're a journalist and you're writing a piece about corruption in Afghanistan, you do research, you cram all of that in your head, and a a journalist you need to, like, figure that shit out and then at some point everything has landed in its place and you write an article. And then you have an article. That's pretty cool. But say we have a news organisation, and we hire one journalist. No one works at the news media organisation, just us and no one else, and we hire one journalist. We're going to ask that one journalist to do the story on Afghanistan corruption. And then we hire another journalist to do something else, write about, eh, beers in Belgium. And then we hire another person, and that person is going to write about fries in France, and all those...  Like, that first person can spent a hundred percent of his time on his research, figuring that shit out, and then writing an article. And then that second person is going to begin, and he's also going to have to do all his research, figure all this shit out on his own and then write the article on his own. And then the third person comes in and writes his french fries blog and also do all his research and writing on his own, etc. So you would think that you now have three hundred percent production compared to the first person, but actually you also gain overhead so actually with every person you add, your production per person diminishes. So the more people you add, the less value you get for your money. 


Interviewer 2: How does that work? This overhead is cumulative per person, then? 

Boris: Yeah, so these people need to go and, they need to have an off site, and they need to...

Interviewer 2: Mediate between team members...

Boris: Exactly. And they need mediation because one person's farts (?) in the hall way and another person is upset about this...

Interviewer 1: It is super upsetting (laughs)

Boris: So you get these diminishing returns. The law of diminishing returns. So that is like a big disincentive to grow for news organisations. What technology companies do, they find people that add value to the other people that are there and you try to hire people for how much they can make the whole more valuable. You hire people that can add something which makes the actual overall production increase, and which increases production but also the production of people around them. Which means that, instead of having like/going from like one hundred percent to one hundred eighty, one seventy five... you get to one hundred percent, two hundred ten percent, three hundred forty percent: it grows. And what we are really trying to do is trying to bring that to media production. By looking at every step of that way which can be shared by a group of people. By looking at ways of working in which you can share knowledge but also share work, share experience, and really not look at it as a person who makes something, but a group that makes something, or even a whole organisation that makes something. And everyone in that whole organisation is tasked to make something that is as valuable as possible. 

(laatste seconden gaan over artikel dat iemand over Boris schreef... Niet gebruiken?)
