# Service Design is Everywhere

Well-designed and intentional yet often unnoticed or taken-for-granted services make our daily lives smoother and more comfortable. Our interactions with organisations are actually services that can be designed. When those experiences are negative, STBY sees opportunities for improvement. STBY has worked to improve society, often times in subtle but highly impactful ways.

## Helping staff and travelers effectively anticipate train departure times. 

Nomi always travels by train during rush hours. She has the tendency to sprint through the stations’ big halls, high heels, Cafe Latte in one hand. In search of the right platform from where her train leaves. Stress before even thinking about work is not ideal. But then—her eyes scanning for her train departure time—without even looking at her watch or calculate the time she’s got left, she sees a count down clock. Three minutes until the train leaves. Time to calm down, no Cafe Latte spilling, today will be a good day.     

Delays in train departures from stations are disruptive to many, "such as train travelers and staff working in trains and stations, but also others stuck in traffic waiting needlessly at a nearby crossing. Train operators are keen to explore solutions that help to avoid delays in dispatch times, and one such solution is a count down service. A digital sign at the platform showing the minutes and seconds left before a train is due to depart helps staff and travelers effectively anticipate train departure times." Though implementation of such a system may be barely-noticed, this subtle improvement greatly improves the service of transportation.

"Policy changes, ageing society, rising costs and digitisation… these are just a few of the challenges the healthcare sector faces today. As the complexity of the system and services increases, regular problem-solving methods don’t fit anymore." When a healthcare organisation realised this was an imminent problem, they wanted to introduce Design Thinking to their employees and asked us at STBY to help them with that process. Teaching healthcare employees to think in solution-focused, action-oriented ways opens doors to creativity in the field, accelerating much-needed improvements and changes.
