# Combined Resume STBY

At STBY we believe that all our strengths come for the combination of skills and experiences of our team members. No one is as good alone as they are together. To show you (and ourselves) how awesome our combined experiences are we will use this article to describe STBY as a person. We will do this because we believe that we are dependent on each other, but also to create a context in which it becomes clear how amazing it is that all these experiences, skills an traits come together as a whole.

To explain to you who I am and what I am capable of I think it is suitable to show you how I have gotten to where I am now. My whole life I have been caught between two interests. Human behavior and design. To feed these interests I have done quite a lot of studies and worked in a lot of different places. To get a better understanding of the workings of the mind of an individual I have studied Psychology. To place this in the context of society I have followed courses in  Sociology and Cultural studies. To give myself insight in the process of creation I have studied Interaction design, Industrial design, Ergonomics and Consumer Product Design. I have also studied Computing Sciences, Ethnography, photography and Choreography, studies that both view the process of creation form the perspective of the creator and the user. This education enabled me to get jobs in my field of interest.

To develop my skills after my education I have worked in several positions for a lot of different companies. I have been an ergonomist at a Dutch steel producer, where I focused on improving the labour conditions of the employees. I have been an account manager at an aviation company, where I focussed on keeping private individuals and employees fit and healthy.
I have been consultant at a company that focused on improving labour conditions of employees in the whole of Holland. By trying to improve the health and labour condition of employees I often had to look at the tools they use and the environment in which they worked. This has given me a lot of insight how these tools where intended, how they were used and the damage a misunderstanding between the designer and the user of a product or service can do. It also taught me a lot about how I could solve these problems.

In another time and place I tried to empower citizens to create and understand products and processes for more transparency, with the belief that everyone can be creative and innovative as long as they have a conducive environment. I wanted to give citizens the means to contribute to the world they live in.  I have done this as a User-Researcher in a public laboratory and as head of an open design lab.  My Experience with enabling citizens to innovate has greatly enhanced my ability to stand in someone else's shoes and given me a great deal of insight in the thought process of users.

During this time a also was a Choreographer for the musical *Hair* and i designed Printed Materials Designer for EPIC (Ethnographic Praxis in Industry), a congress that focuses on the perspective of the user.  

At some point I founded a company where my main focus was on the developing and managing of processes and technologies that support the collection, managing, and publishing of information on digital platforms and usability the research of usage of products and service intended to draw conclusions that can increase the effectiveness and costumer satisfaction.
Here I have investigated the needs and user patterns of costumers and consulted in [copy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copywriting) for, among others: Philips, KLM, KPN, Aids Fonds, Grolsch, and Rijkswaterstaat. The company got bought up by an advertising agency. I became their usability director and took responsibility for the development and execution of all consumer research and copy consultancy. Here I had the ability to implement the knowledge I had from both perspectives towards a commercial goals and have experienced a very distinct and measurable way to implement conclusions drawn from knowledge of user behavior. During this time, I have been greatly involved in the coming of age of the internet-centric business enabling me to create a very strong and deep understanding of the workings of internet services and the creation and distribution of digital content.

Even tho now I had accumulated quite some knowledge and experience, I did not feel quite equipped to start my own company that brought my main interests fully together. In an attempt to gain the capabilities to implement my finings i studied Marketing and Communication and went to a business school. In the final two years of my studies I started STBY.

My educations and work experiences, has enabled me to more fully understand the ways I can *use* my knowledge in order to realize effective service design. It has given me insight within the design process, and not solely in understanding the user. It has also enabled me to become independent from the commercial goals of advertising (increasing sales by using user behaviour) and function more towards improving services by understanding both the design process *and* user behavior.

Our shared work experience and knowledge, in its vastness, has taught us to identify and solve problems in complex situations, understand, take into account and influence human behavior, and comprehend how businesses function. All of these experiences have laid the sound foundation upon which STBY has been built.
