It is speculated on the internet that Einstein once wrote: "Everybody is a genius. But if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will live its whole life believing that it is stupid." Regardless of who wrote this, I learned its inevitable truth once again a few months back when I was renovating my home. There was a wall that needed to be taken out and it was a super-delicate job. There were a bunch of screws that were tucked in around a corner that you could only get to with a steady hand and a LOT of patience. I have neither of those. While I was fuming away at the those little suckers, my father was trying to break through the plaster of the rest of the wall with the efficiency equivalent to a new born calf. I remember both of us sweating on and persevering, our annoyance building until I threw my screwdriver down with a full-on sob, not knowing what to do with the rest of my life. My father, amazing as he is, offered to switch places, seeing how that would go. Not only did I fly through the walls with the pleasure and ease that already had me tearing out the rotted-through floorboards, my father was already halfway trough fixing the lighting issues I was having because "he liked the challenge it offered". In no time, most of the chores of the day were done and neither of us had the feeling we had done any hard or annoying work. By both being able to choose our tasks and enjoying the things the other would not, we made the job infinitely more fun and easy.

This led me to wonder how my life would be if I could always have someone within reach who enjoyed doing the things that I disliked and vice versa. How amazing our lives would be...
